---
layout: posts
title: may
description: media diet
categories: mediadiet
---

{% include nav.md %}

# Media diet for May 2018

## Books

**Lab Rat One** — Andrea Höst

Ok, this series is exceedingly straight, and that's a bummer. I wish there
was a lot less pining after the sad boy, but the magic and tech continues
to be interesting. The pacing is a little lax, and I've gotten slightly
sick of the cycles of "power then injury" that Cass goes through, but I'm
going to finish this out.

**Caszandra** — Andrea Höst

Ugh, I wanted to enjoy the rest of this story, but this book was so
exceedingly dull. I **loathe** that the main character was setup to not
only get married, but have kids at ~19 years old. Fuck that. This series
started off well, but ended up being even worse than Twilight. Read the
first book, and skip the rest.

**Space Opera** — Catherynne M. Valente

Uproariously fun, and silly throughout. Take Douglas Adams, add in some
queerness, and an obsession with Eurovision. Loved this from start to
finish. I devoured the back-half of this book in one sitting at a cafe in
Copenhagen, and found myself crying in the afterword/credits.

**Gold, Fame, Citris** — Claire Vaye Watkins

Interesting book about a post-apocalyptic wasteland America and the ideas
of survival and family. I enjoyed this.

**Gods, Monsters, and the Lucky Peach** — Kelly Robson

A cool scifi short novel where the future is barren, but at least there's
time-travel. I wanted more world-building, and probably a couple more books
in this story, but that also means I liked this book quite a bit. The back
half of the book felt much faster than the lead-up, and much of the action
was compacted, but it was a fun adventure. This is a solid addition to the
burgeoning eco-scifi genre.

## Movies

**Geostorm**

A trash movie in the best way. If you liked watching Jake Gylenhall run
from ice in The Day After Tomorrow, and people saying "zap!" and
"geostorm!", then this movie is for you. Continues the trend of big-budget
action films being largely targeted for non-US success, but that means we
also get some cool co-stars.

**In the Fade**

One of the saddest movies I've seen in a long time. It's gorgeous,
well-shot, and soundtracked, but phew, what a brutal movie about the evils
of nazism, and racism.

**Avengers: Infinity War**

This movie tried to tie together too many disparate stories, to bland
effect. The attempt at some sort of emotional climax was a big wet fart,
despite ten people in the theater I was in yelling at the screen. Like,
_spoilers_ they'll all be back, bc Disney isn't going to kill off their
money-makers. Go rewatch Black Panther of Thor Ragnarok, or like, spend 3
hours outside instead.

**Deadpool 2**

As fun as Avengers: Infinity War was boring and meh. Full of silly jokes.
There were definitely jokes that were in really poor taste, but pretty
much what I expected.
