---
type: mediadiet
title: april
date: 2018-04-17
description: media diet
categories: mediadiet
tags:
  - mediadiet
---

## Books

**All Systems Red** — Martha Wells

Pretty fun book about a "murderbot" who would rather be watching tv dramas
than shooting anything. I'm looking forward to the next few books.

**Stray** — Andrea Höst

This was recommended to me by my buddy Nick, and I'd avoided it for unknown
reasons. Maybe the cover was too low-budget? But, this book is really fun.
I think this series kinda qualifies as YA, but the journal nature, as well
as the mystery of scifi tech/magic systems got me deep into the world. A
really nice vacation read.

**Lab Rat One** — Andrea Höst

Ok, this series is exceedingly straight, and that's a bummer. I wish there
was a lot less pining after the sad boy, but the magic and tech continues
to be interesting. The pacing is a little lax, and I've gotten slightly
sick of the cycles of "power then injury" that Cass goes through, but I'm
going to finish this out.

## Movies

**The Death of Stalin**

Super dark comedy. It has that abusive asshole Jeffrey Tambor, but
otherwise is full of hilariously weird old men. If you like Veep or In the
Thick of It, this is a must-watch.

**The Ritual**

A very good "get lost in the woods" movie. Bad things happen to unlikeable
men. A+.

**Cabin Fever**

I can't tell if this was the original, or if this was a remake, but either
way, it's nice to watch annoying and awful people fall apart. This is a
theme of the previous and next movie.

**The Descent**

Another "maybe these are bad people" everything-goes-wrong movie. This was
a rewatch, and yet, the cave scenes still had me feeling super
claustrophobic. It didn't help that I was in the middle of a middle row on
a plane to Portland from Amsterdam when I watched it.

**A Quiet Place**

A "good christian family" who _loves_ gender roles has to be _vewwwwwy
quiet_ so they don't get eaten by some kind of creatures. This movie was
silly as fuck. Every time the monster was on screen, someone had to
pantomime "be quiet," as if the entire movie hadn't been quiet. Also
_spoilers_ but how the fuck do you get pregnant if you know that a baby is
going to make loud baby noises and get your family killed? And _where did
they fuck?_ Anyways, this is a hate-watch.
