---
type: posts
title: xoxo 2019
date: 2019-09-10
description: my 4th time at xoxo
categories: blog
tags:
  - reviews
---

## A return to form

This year marked my 4th XOXO, and my 3rd at Revolution Hall. Last year was _big_, which meant it was even harder to wave at, or spend time with the other amazing attendees I knew. This year, it felt just right. I still waved at too many folks, and wished I had time to have a number of small dinners over the next year instead of so many “hey, I see you, sorry I’ve gotta run!” However, I got to spend time with a smallish group of friends, see all the talks I wanted, and even play some [amazing](http://www.killerqueenblack.com) [new](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IJ_I8SSVKto) [games](https://play.date).
If you’ve never been to XOXO, and you make things on the internet, and enjoy building relationships, this is a great place for you.

## Day one

As usually, the first day of the conference was a social one—with Glitch doing an [Appy Hour](https://glitch.com/~appy-hour), and Panic showing off the [Playdate](https://play.date). It was super cool seeing all the strange community games and creations of Glitch users, along with a few presentations, and the Playdate is something I can’t wait to own. Topped-off with a dinner at Kachka, a lot of upcoming games, and one of the [most hilarious videos](https://www.polygon.com/videos/2019/9/9/20849172/unraveled-how-to-calculate-pet-hp-hit-points) I’ve seen in a while, wherein Brian Gilbert attempts to calculate his pet’s HP, Friday was a delight. The weather held, the [toilets were uniquely chill](https://twitter.com/brookshelley/status/1171647388001406976?s=21), and the layout of the festival ensure I could wander and find neat things.

## Day two

One of the first pieces of advice I’d give anyone going to a multi-day festival is “don’t drink too much on the first night”. I didn’t take my own advice. I wasn’t ill, but a combination of 3 glasses of wine and too little sleep meant 10am felt _very_ early. Thankfully my hotel had Proud Mary coffee, and XOXO had Deadstock. A breakfast sandwich from Fried Egg I’m in Love completed my resurrection.

Day two felt a little longer, as I sat through every talk, alternately crying and laughing. A definite emotional rollercoaster. Helen and Hrishikesh were excellent hosts, and seeing their banter develop over the weekend makes me hope they host again next year. I missed the Andy’s camaraderie at times, but I hope _only_ being responsible for the whole festival was a nice change from also MCing.

Lunch was Basilisk. Unbeatable fried chicken I eat every time I visit Portland. Yes, even when I’m there for hours.

Favorite talks from Saturday: Harry Brewis (very funny guy who I didn’t know anything about beforehand), Hundred Rabbits (delightful French Canadian vegan sailors), and Soleil Ho (what happens when you become the representation?!).

After a quick dinner, I sat down for a night of unforgettable podcasts. I watched a man interview a chainsaw, and was utterly destroyed by Demi and Miel with special guests Neil and Mike doing Ray Parker Jr’s Ghostbuster song. The number of folks I heard singing “bustin’ makes me feel good” after this podcast taping tells me I wasn’t alone.

## Day 3 (Closing time)

Coffee. Sandwich. Almost there. I was wiped at this point, but the talks were delightful. Mikki Kendall, Jenny Odell, and Rhea Butcher were my favorites from Sunday. A great mix of comedy and art. Food highlights were Navarre (another favorite), and dinner at Sardine Head. OMG Sardine Head. Oxidated white wine. Salt-cured anchovy. Dang.

The karaoke list was full by the time my friends and I got back from dinner, and a cab ride that included an episode of [King of the Hill](https://twitter.com/brookshelley/status/1170902500083322880?s=21). It was fun watching various speakers and friends sing Pavement, Lizzo, and of course, the Ghostbuster’s theme. I ended my night with my friends Jenny and Joe, drinking on the balcony at my hotel. Our friend André’s room was right by the balcony, and he wandered out mid-way through. That moment of kismet was generally how the whole conference felt—friends wandering by, saying hi, and going on adventures.

## A great year

XOXO at its best feels like what I imagine a community _should_ feel like. It’s full of new people, old people, dear friends, and acquaintances. If XOXO was every day, I would lose my mind, but once a year, it feels incredible to be surrounded by so many people I care about, as we’re inspired together by talks, art, and each other. I’m so glad I got to go to Portland, for the first time as a non-resident, for XOXO. I can’t wait for another year of this magical festival, and hope many of the same folks will get to attend. My only regret is that I can’t somehow bring Snorri with me too. He’d hate it.
