---
layout: micropubpost
date: '2020-07-19T08:27:10.708Z'
title: Fennel & Dill 29
tags:
  - newsletter
lang: en
---

# Fennel & Dill 29

Happy [March 141st](https://calendar2020.noj.cc)! Time continues to show up for me in the cycles of life—laundry, therapy, medicine, and plant watering. With news that most schools will open virtually in the fall, I get the sense that “summer” for kids will continue well into 2021, albeit without pool parties. It’s a weird, life-defining time. Snorri and I are weathering things well, and possibly even thriving. As my friend Lena said yesterday, “I’m an indoor cat”. I wish sunbeams, lights to chase, and regular feedings upon my fellow indoor cats.

With cases spiking, I hope you’re staying safe, wearing a mask, and keeping to yourself largely. I personally wish we could literally quarantine everyone for three weeks, because that seems like it would end the whole disease, but instead...

*gestures broadly*

## Links

- Take a trip with me to the 90s, and learn about the _wonders_ of Crystal Pepsi, won’t you?

{{< youtube JJYsS82khTc >}}

- Wait, you want more training? Why not learn how to be a buffet employee? You see, in the before times, buffets were a place you could eat as much low-quality food as you could stomach for like, $5. If you ever find yourself in the past, make sure you load up on “expensive” meats first, before diving into the world of carbs. Sometimes you may even happen upon “sushi”. It’s wild. Good luck!

{{< youtube dw-axqRpQo8 >}}

- This week when I was deep in thought, I started digging back into the delights and confusion of Buddhist writing. A particular favorite is a Norwegian guy that my old sangha leader would read from often: [Gil Fronsdal](https://www.insightmeditationcenter.org/wp-content/uploads/documents/iah/IssueAtHand4thEd.pdf). That link will get you one of his books, and if you [look around online](https://www.abhayagiri.org/books/545-beginning-our-day-volume-one), maybe you’ll find a lot of other excellent things to read about dukka and the second arrow.
- Philip Glass is a gift, and this tweet destroyed me:

{{< twitter 1283854000392151041 >}}

Today in news, famous white lady author gets drunk, and tweets:

{{< twitter 1284288455862779907 >}}

Drunk tweets are one of the best things about Twitter, tbh.

## In closing

This week’s newsletter was hopefully a bit more ridiculous and upbeat than usual. I know I needed a laugh, and I hope you enjoyed one too. I’m thinking about a vacation from work in August perhaps, since I found out yesterday my writing retreat in Japan is cancelled. Have you done something nice that took you away from the daily grind? Let me know so I can steal your ideas, lol. As always, keep fighting, and I’ll see you next week space cowgirls~


