---
type: mediadiet
title: February
date: 2020-03-01
tags:
  - mediadiet
category: mediadiet
---

XOXO it was the month of love... for my new bike, and my always valentine Snorri. I watched a lot more movies this month than I read books, but that felt alright. Video games were also a theme, with _lots_ of Witcher 3 and Dead Souls to keep me occupied. I also powered through a number of TV shows, like the Misadventures of Romesh Ranganathan and the October Faction.

## Books

**The Longing for Less** — Kyle Chayka

This was far funnier than I expected, and also taught me a lot about a few areas of art and architecture I didn’t know about. A really informative and fun book.

**しろくまカフェ　1**

私のこれが最初日本語の漫画を読んだ。面白かったよ。次に谷崎の文学を読むww。

**Outline** — Rachel Cusk

This was recommended to me, but I can’t say I loved it. The story here read more as a series of strange anecdotes, without a lot of core thread to grasp. There are two more books in this series, but I think I may pass on them.

**Agency** — William Gibson

A nearly present-day story of AI, art, and San Francisco. I really enjoyed this Peripheral sequel, though I think on the whole the fashion and strange web world of the previous trilogy was more my speed. I hope we get one more book with Netherton, Ash and company.

## Movies

**Jojo Rabbit**

A deeply strange film about learning how to be a person and unlearn fanaticism. There were some pretty excellent cameos in this, and a very dark comedic beat.

**Phantom Thread**

Wow, this movie was hilarious from top to bottom. A friend (hi Drew) invited me to see it for the first time in 70mm, and all I want to do is channel Woodcock every day. "What am I supposed to do with that?". What a joy. I can't wait to watch this again.

**First Love**

A strange mistaken gangster film. This was much more straightforward than many Takeshi Miike films, but still managed to add in some really bizarre bits, and even some surprises.

**Elle**

Yow. That was... a lot of movie. Isabelle Huppert was fantastic, but I don't know if I could recommend it. Definitely one of the stranger Verhoeven movies I've seen.

**Anna**

Another lady assassin movie. It was a helluva ride and I enjoyed it. I don’t think it added anything huge to the genre, but I’m just glad to have more cool movies about tough women. That said, I wish Anna had been able to just be with her girlfriend instead of randomly fucking spymasters.

**Gennocidal Organ**

I read the book this movie is based on last year, and it’s a truly brutal story of linguistics and massive unrest. This movie is grim in a way that feels a little too prescient. Definitely one of the better anime thrillers I’ve seen in a while though.

**Psycho Pass Movie Trilogy**

After season 3, Psycho Pass had a trilogy of films in Japan. They’re fun continuations of the characters from all three seasons, and a bit of a sequel to the first movie. The future this film presents is pretty grim, but the animation is fantastic.
