---
layout: micropubpost
date: '2020-09-20T22:05:18.523Z'
title: Dill & Fennel 9-20-20
mf-post-status:
  - draft
slug: dill-fennel-9-20-20
lang: en
---

# Dill & Fennel 9-20-20

Finally, a brief respite in the smoke! I got to go on a nice long bike ride around the lake as soon as the air hit green. The rest of the week could’ve been spent outside, but I mostly just worked-out and play video games. Oh well.

The news of RBG’s death last night made me pretty sad, but also reminded me that a future that’s better than any past we’ve had depends on each and every one of us resisting and working towards it. It’s very helpful when folks dedicate their lives towards causes, but if everyone puts in like 10% effort we’d be in a better place, I think. So, VOTE. Donate. I’m on the host committee this year for the Trans Law Center’s gala, so it would be dope if you [attended or threw in some cash](https://app.mobilecause.com/e/YB54-Q?vid=br1bq).

Otherwise, I’m playing lots of Dark Souls (yes, the first one), and cooking, and trying to learn how to mop effectively. It turns out after 35 years of life, I might actually be someone who cleans regularly. I still miss being able to hire a housekeeper though.

Let’s get on with the links!

## Links

- Ann Helen Petersen, recently of the Burnout article that went around wrote about [surge capacity](https://elemental.medium.com/your-surge-capacity-is-depleted-it-s-why-you-feel-awful-de285d542f4c). We’ve all been operating in bursts since March 2020, in addition to the nexus of challenges and pains that we’re dealing with normally. 
- Have you heard how everyone is _fleeing the cities_ for the suburbs? It _turns out_ that [just isn’t true](https://www.curbed.com/2020/8/31/21404333/suburbs-housing-boom-urban-exodus-coronavirus). There’s so much fearmongering these days, but despite rents falling a bit in cities like San Francisco, folks’ reasons for staying in the cities are the same as their reasons for moving there in the first place. For me at least, moving somewhere without queer or trans rights just _isn’t an option_.

{{< tweet 1294522730021367808 >}}

- I dove back into the sand world of Dune recently, and as a long time fan of the first book and the Lynch film, I am glad to be sorta-kinda [in the “Dune fandom”](https://theoutline.com/post/5333/dune-revival-2018-david-lynch). I’m hopeful the new film doesn’t truly fuck up Dune, but we’ll see.

{{< tweet 1303783966067929088 >}}

- This remains [one of the funniest things I’ve read in a while](https://theoutline.com/post/5495/how-to-beat-linked-in-the-game). Joe is a great writer, and a good friend. I don’t think he’s ever endorsed me for anything on LinkedIn, but if I knew how to endorse people, I would endorse him for “humorous content”, and “looks good in a Miata”.
- Speaking of Joe, he texted me a [very good link](https://mango.pdf.zone/finding-former-australian-prime-minister-tony-abbotts-passport-number-on-instagram) the other night, and it had me dead from laughter. The rollercoaster of this “hack” and the eventual conclusion is a delight throughout. Good job MangoPDF. Good job.
- Finally, let’s talk about [_eating meat_](https://www.bbc.com/future/article/20190206-what-the-meat-paradox-reveals-about-moral-decision-making). Yea, that’s right, putting dead animal parts into our mouth holes. It’s weird, but also totally normal. It _turns out_ most of us don’t like to consider how those animal parts get into our mouth holes from fields and trees. I eat a very plant-heavy diet these days, and try to consume only animals I would or have killed. I can’t say you have to live your life this way by any means, but I _do_ think it’s worth considering the impact your diet has on the world and on specific animals.

## In closing

The best time to start meditating is yesterday, and the second best time is today, to paraphrase something half-remembered. If you can take some time to just breathe, it’s a neat, free way to feel just a little bit better. If you have a little bit more money and time, therapy is also excellent. We’ll be in this kinda shit for a while to come, it seems like, and I know I’ve benefited from support and these two practices. 

Hopefully some of the links this week made you laugh a bit, because laughter is dope. I hope wherever you’re reading this from you’ve got a nice day ahead of you. Stay safe, keep fighting, and I’ll see you next week, space cowgirls~

